New Term: Java Strings `.indexOf()` (#734)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/strings/terms/indexof/indexof.md

---
Title: '.indexOf()'
Description: 'Returns the zero-indexed position of the first occurrence of the given character(s) in a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The `.indexOf()` method returns the zero-indexed position of the first occurrence of the given character(s) in a string. It returns `-1` if the given characters(s) are not found.

## Syntax

```java
string.indexOf(str,index)
```

> Where `str` is a `String`, or an `int` representing a character or Unicode value, to find the index of, and `index` is an optional index position in the string to search from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `str` can be a `String`, or an `int` representing a character or Unicode value. The index where this value is found will be returned.
- `index` is an optional index position in the string to start the search from.
```

## Example

The following example finds the position of the string "World" in "Hello World!":

```java

> class FindInxex {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
class FindIndex {
```

---
Title: '.indexOf()'
Description: 'Returns the zero-indexed position of the first occurrence of the given character(s) in a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The `.indexOf()` method returns the zero-indexed position of the first occurrence of the given character(s) in a string. It returns `-1` if the given characters(s) are not found.

## Syntax

> ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

string.indexOf(str, index)
```

- `str` can be a `String`, or an `int` representing a character or Unicode value. The index where this value is found will be returned.
- `index` is an optional index position in the string to start the search from.

## Example

The following example finds the position of the string "World" in "Hello World!":

```java
class FindIndex {
  public static void main(String[] args) {

>     String greeting = "Hello World";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    String greeting = "Hello World!";
```

    System.out.println(greeting.indexOf("World"));

>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  }
```

}
```

> This outputs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This outputs the following:
```
